# Cryptocurrency-RNN

This is a first attempt at a reccurent neural network to predict buys and sells for a specified cryptocurrency. It allows you to read in data such a price, volume, etc. from Binance and predict a specified time slot forward (6 minutes in this example) based on a specified number of previous time instances (60 minutes in this example). The current structure of the network trains on a 2 month interval, approx. 90,000 price instances for 5 different market features, and then predicts a specified coin buy/sell. It is currently set-up as a classification network, classifying 0, meaning the price will go down, or 1, meaning the price will go up. I am aware a regression model would be more suited for the task, though it was more important to me in this project to get the overall structure figured out, from Binance reading all the way through backtesting, hence the phrase "first attempt". As it is set up, the network predicted up/down ticks with 54% accuracy, theoretically successful trading, though when you consider trading fees, I would not be comfortable deploying the model just yet.

Issues: The network takes approx 2-3 hours to train on my CPU, I do not have the patience to optimize it, so the current structure is nothing more than an intuitive guess. I think have a GPU to work with and being able to run the CUDNN LSTM cells provided by Tensorflow, which I've heard run an order of magnitude faster, would allow for optimization through Tensorboard and some improved accuracy, perhaps 2%-5% I would guess. It seems it is overtraining, I suspect 3 or 4 epochs might be optimal, though I didn't bother to mess with this because I would like to optimize the size of the network itself, first.

The network only suggests buys/sells based on price movement up or down, no matter how big or small the change. In future models, I would like to figure in trading fees thus turning some "buys" into "do not buys" if fees change the prediction from profit to no profit. I think I will probably turn it into a regression network in the future, in which case this would be a very simple addition.
Overall, I think this project taught me a lot about reccurent neural networks, which I haven't had much experience with in the past. I'm excited to build the regression model and see how it performs. Perhaps I'll borrow a friends GPU set-up to optimize the neuron layers in the future once the network is functional.

(P.S. these api keys no longer exist)
